I thought it was mighty good. I thought
the required subjects in English, mathematics,
chemistry,
biology, those made a very good foundation
to build on with more applied subjects.
I never was too favorable to the requirements in
history and government.
That's one of my favorite requirements. Yeah, of
course. There was a gentleman by the name of Paul
Pearson who taught nutrition in the animal
science department who was really the primary one
and inspired me to take graduate work.
And as a junior, and I did pretty well in his
nutrition course. He had me take an additional
course in organic chemistry to prepare for
graduate work.
Paul Pearson very strangely is still operating in
the nutrition field today. He must be
mid-seventies or so, but he's associated with the
faculty at his medical college at the University
of Arizona. He's the leader in nutrition around.
He left the nutrition section in the Animal
Science Department. He was the first dean of the
Graduate College at Texas A&M, so he was that
caliber guy. So I was just very fortunate in being
exposed to really high caliber people as an
undergraduate student.
Fred Bryson, who's died last year after he was
recognized and received that Distinguished
Alumni Award. just an outstanding person, taught
horticulture at that time. I later was associated
with him in the A&M Methodist Church for many,
many, many years.
So I was just so fortunate to be exposed to really
high caliber, well qualified teachers. Why did
these fine people, why do you think that they took
an interest in you?
I think they were interested in all of their
students. I don't say that they were showing
favoritism toward me.
I did have a good academic record along. I think
that's the same thing's true today. The ones that
perform well in any course will receive a little
increased attention and encouragement from
instructors.
Can you tell me about your student colleagues? You
learn quite a bit in the Corps. Did you learn from
them in the classroom? Well of course.
I just got through talking to one of them a few
minutes ago. It was a high administration of Iowa
beef processors by the name of Charlie Jennings. I
remember going through class with him. Ed Brown
still see a good many of the classmates that I went
to school with. They have performed mighty well as
a general rule.
Certainly we were stimulated by the association
of the people in the classroom and the
laboratories.
We live together a lot closer than the students do
today.
I would say that we have developed a little closer
comradeship than is the usual situation as we go
through school. We were on campus most weekends.
We were interacting a whole lot more. Smaller
student body. Sure. Another question about the
core. We were talking before, this is one I forgot
to ask you, we were talking before about the
opinion of graduates of other ROTC and West Point
of Texas A&M Corps officers. In what way do you
think being a member of the Corps helped your
career, and in what way did it hinder your career,
if there are any ways?
Well, I can dispose of that first. I don't know any
way being a member of the Cadet Corps of Texas A&M
ever would have hindered me in any way. Okay.
I think it helped because
Texas A&M had such a fine reputation with the
military, which I think it enjoys today. I think it
still has that kind of a reputation.
Well, that was no excuse. I mean, no substitute for
performance, but it sure did give you a leg up. Sure
did. Being a graduate from ROTC at Texas A&M, you
were presumed to be effective as an Army officer
right off the bat.
Were there other reasons beside the fact that you
enjoyed the 10 acres at your home and had animals
when you were a child. Were there other reasons
beside that that you decided to go into
agriculture when you got here? Well as I told you, I
was enrolled in agricultural engineering. Yeah,
when you first came here. And I'd always enjoyed
livestock so much. Of course I wasn't employed for
pay. But I spent most of my time around the cattle
barn in Texas A&M working for free. I
believe in that. If a person wants a job, he can show
somebody what he can do. If a job comes up, he can get
it. So actually I didn't get one there. I got one on
the janitor's horse. So even though I was
registered in agricultural engineering and had
an entirely satisfactory academic record in
engineering my first semester. I transferred
over the second semester because obviously
that's where my major interest was. I
was, as I say, stimulated by my vocational
agriculture instructor in high school. by the
county agent for whom I worked one summer, and
measuring crop acreages around.
I just enjoy watching things grow, particularly
livestock. From the time I was a little bit kid, I
was fascinated with livestock, particularly
cattle. I've had the pleasure of interviewing a
number of associated with the College of
Veterinary Medicine here, and it sounds like they
had similar experiences in their youth as you have
had, and similar interests in livestock and in
animals that you had. Why did you, did you ever
consider going into veterinary medicine?
No, I really didn't. My closest friend from Orange
was a year ahead of me and was in veterinary
medicine.
His name was Herschel Darman. Darman? Darman,
D-O-R-M-A, and still is a veterinary
practitioner at Fort Worth. I don't know why I
suppose, you know, my first
major with agricultural engineering, so that was
way off the track. Right. You know, then I got it.
Herschel Darman, my good friend, worked at the
Beef Kettle Center, and I used to help him. Got
acquainted with the people around there, and
acquainted with the professors in the Animal
Science Department in that way, so I would say, no,
I didn't ever consider veterinary medicine,
though. I've always had a respect for veterinary
medicine. Herschel Darman asked me to come with
him to anatomy lectures sometime to hear Dr. Mark
Francis lecture. I did that a few times. Did you
really? Oh yeah. What did you think of Dr. Francis?
Oh what a great gentleman. Of course by that time he
was deaf.
He had certain eccentricities, but he was devoted
to students at Texas A&M.
He was an outstanding person and an outstanding
lecturer and certainly had the respect of his
students. And I got acquainted during that time
with Dr. Marsh Diller, first dean of Under
Medicine. I cleaned up his office in this
building. He was in this building, you see. All the
deans, the four deans were in this building, so I
got acquainted with him. What type of a man was he?
He was a little bit courtly and a little bit clumsy.
That way, a good scholar. His wife showed American
Saddle Horses, so I got acquainted with her
through that means. Owen Garrigan at the Staples,
we used to have horse shows in the Pavilion. Dr.
Leonard over in the Charter Deau Veterinary
Laboratories, that is a clinic. I got acquainted
with him, had a lot of respect for him. We had, let's
see, Dr. Pat Burns, who's still around right now.
He taught me veterinary physiology. Oh, really?
And you know, I thought it was really something
when he expected us to know the names of all the 207
bones and body, whatever it was, I guess. But you
know, I did it, whatever it is. Fine, fine teacher.
Dr. Leonard taught us veterinary. We had a course
for animal scientists in veterinary medicine. He
lectured that way, so I know that I still have a fine
respect for veterinarians.
I'm sure that a lot of that was developed during the
time I was a student. primarily because I got
associated with them because of my real good
friend, Herschel Darman, who was taking winter
medicine.
What were your plans when you graduated in 1939?
Well, I sure, first plan was to try to get something
to get that job. A lot of people that graduated in
those days couldn't find employment. A.K. Mackey
was associated with the dining hall and
purchasing the meat for them.
After I had a course under him and he got me involved
with his research a bit with Sylvia He also got me
acquainted with his extra job of purchasing,
providing, consulting with the dining hall on
purchasing meat. But during my senior year, I got
acquainted with Cliff Holtard, Jay Penniston,
through A.K. Mikey. Of course, I wound up then that
I got my brother acquainted with him too, and they
hired both of us on graduation. Actually, I
started working for the Dining Hall Department
a month or two before I graduated. Went right into
that position.
My responsibility was working with Mr. Mikey and
making the decisions on meat purchases and
advising Cliff O'Tart about that. So I was the
first dining hall steward of Duncan Dining Hall on
this campus, which was brand new in the fall of
1939. And my brother then got acquainted through
my early association. He took a position with the
dining hall department. He was dining hall
steward of Sabiza Dining Hall. So that's what both
of us did when we graduated. We moved right into
that position. Those were good jobs in those days.
They had $125 a month in room and board. No kidding.
So we were provided quarters over near Hotard
Hall. Hotard Hall was brand new a little later and
he and I both lived in Hotard Hall too as bachelors.
A little later we had some wooden quarters right
behind the old board of directors' quarters here
in those days. Those were real good jobs. Even
though you had been a regimental commander, then
you didn't look forward to a military career? What
were your feelings on a military career? Well, I
had that opportunity. They kept in garrison while
they were OTC instructors.
nominated me or the instructors had for
distinguished military graduate. I believe
there were nine in those days. They were pretty
selective. There were nine distinguished
military graduates.
I was one of them. He talked to me about going into
the services.
I did consider that opportunity.
I think I was too close to family, just too
provincial Texan to want to get into a big
adventure of getting in the Army and being
stationed in some foreign country like Oklahoma.
Or
getting all around the world. I think that's what
was
made me a holding all, something like that. I
couldn't see being separated from my family that
much. You were only 20 at this time? That's right.
Of course I couldn't be commissioned when I
graduated. In those days you couldn't get a
commission until you were 21, so I wasn't
commissioned at ROTC, couldn't get my
commission. I had to apply after my birthday,
September the 29th of 1939, and I actually
received my commission in December. Because you
had to be 21 years old to get a commission.
Some of my classmates did Darcy McCrory, for
instance, right here, who's right around Brian,
was a distinguished military graduate. He went
right in the armed forces. He retired as a colonel,
came back here and started working. It's kind of
interesting that one of the first people that my
father and I talked to when we came to Texas A&M
looking for student employment was a man named
Arvin Simpson.
Who of course became a Lieutenant General in the
Marine Corps. Back here he had been for five or six
years.
So anyhow. What impact did Simpson have on you? Did
you know him very well? Not about any, no. That's,
he was, he was a fairly recent graduate then and
around working in the position. Lucian Morgan
also had gone into insurance. Sid Loveless was in
the insurance business. He sold me an insurance
policy at that time. He was an outstanding ROTC
cadet devoted to the cavalry. Now he and I share a
grandchildren.
My daughter's married to his son. In other words,
when you graduated in 1939, you didn't look
forward to a military career. You made a choice at
that time. That's right, and I certainly, I was
interested in a career in Meach at that time,
because I was so fascinated with what I'd done with
A.K. Mikey and Sylvia Colbert. Inspired by that
and my opportunity to work with people at Swifton
Company and Armoring Company in Fort Worth and
other packers, Houston Packing Company.
My intention was, I was very pleased with the
opportunity I had to work in the food business in
the dining halls. Cliff Holtard, was an
outstanding man managing the dining halls. The
chefs we had in both Duncan and Savisa Dining Hall
were real top people in the food business. I was
satisfied, that looked like a good career to me.
And I lived at Texas A&M, so you know, I'll go get a
job right here. That's right. Now when you
graduated, I know that one of your goals of course
was to get a job like you just said. Did you have
other definite goals or were you at the age of 20 not
very sure about what you wanted to do in the future?
I certainly wasn't very sure. The first thing that
was essential for me to do was earn a living. I had
sort of suppressed the desire to take graduate
work. I couldn't see how that could be funded. So
after Paul Pearson inspired me to take organic
chemistry to prepare for graduate work, I took the
first semester of it. It was a real demanding
course. Only half the class passed it. I was in that
course with the chemical engineers and others,
classical organic chemistry.
I think I made a C in it, I remember for sure. Anyhow,
that worked me harder than I wanted to work, so I
didn't take the second semester of it. But I
appreciated the fact that it is very demanding.
When I came back and started graduate work in 1947,
I took the second semester of it then, and I
couldn't remember enough of the first semester of
A&R. So I lost my ambition to any I might have ever
had to do graduate work, because I just couldn't
see any financial way of doing it until I
graduated.
Of course, the entry in the armed services was
entirely accidental. During that time, we had
what was called the Thomason Act. And as the armed
forces started expanding in the late 30s, every
reserve officer was obliged to serve one year in
the armed forces. And as they started expanding,
they started some, they started the consolidated
masses. They didn't have any large mess halls
anywhere in the armed forces then. And the newest
one in the country was Duncan Dining Hall on this
campus. And it was a real well done facility. Much
stainless steel, latest design, a fine food
facility. One of the best in the country at that
time, of that nature. So we had a good many visitors
from the armed forces when they were going into
consolidated messes around at airfields and some
of the army bases were expanding at that time. One
of them was the Commandant of the School for Bakers
and Cooks for the Eighth Corps at Fort Sam Houston,
Texas. His name was Wayne M. Pickles.
When I was showing him around the Duncan
Nightingale and all, he learned that I had an ROTC
commission.
And propositioned me, as he was expanding his
operations, to come in to work with him
at Fort Sam Houston, the school for bakers and
cooks. In what capacity? As assistant
commandant. Really? So I was called in August the
4th, 1941 to serve a year under the Thomason Act as
assistant commandant of the school for breakers
and cooks at Fort Sam Houston. So while my branch As
a lieutenant? As a second lieutenant, while my
branch was artillery, I was called in at the
quartermaster corps.
and functioned. I taught the meats work and
carried out some administrative duties with the
school for bakers and cooks at Fort Sam Houston,
Texas. So you took official leave then from A&M?
Took official leave, one year official
leave. Then after Pearl Harbor
Shortly after that, you know, I couldn't quite
stand it. I was shirking my training, I felt like,
so I put in for transfer
to my basic ranch. And I was transferred about 200
yards there from the headquarters of the school
for bakers and cooks to the old outfit of the second
division right there in San Antonio. They had
worked with me in ROTC's. I must have had one of the
shortest distance track for them. What did you do
as far as bakers and cooks? You trained enlisted
men or officers? We did have officer, we did have
mess officer courses, they were shorter, but we
trained bakers and cooks. So it was, I don't
remember the length of the course. Seemed to be
like a nine month course early. You know, as things
heated up, it was contracted and concentrated and
intensified, but early. When I first got in the
Army, my shots, you know, things were pretty
leisurely. We had Wednesday afternoons off,
weekends, so it was a pretty leisurely sort of
thing those days. Wasn't anybody in any hurry.
Nine-month course for Feckerson Cooks. Where
were you in December 7, 1941? I was right here at
College Station.
I started courting Jane Gray, who worked for the
dining hall department as a secretary.
She lived right here on campus.
And I believe December 7th was Sunday.
I was enjoying playing golf. I was over here for the
weekend. I played golf. And when I heard about it, I
was driving back to San Antonio. I heard about it on
the automobile radio on the way back to San
Antonio.
I decided right then that I would put in for
transfer back to my basic branch for artillery.
Had you been following the news or were you pretty
shocked? Oh I was very very shocked, certainly.
I'd been following the news. Of course I knew it was
developments in Europe and threats around the
world. I sure didn't expect anything like that
from the Japanese. Very few others to talk about.
That's absolutely for sure. Now next time, we're
going to talk about your military career in Dell.
Do you have other appointments right now? No. I'd
like to ask you just two last questions for this
session about Texas A&M before we leave your
student years. How many former students that I've
talked to feel that there's something special
about A&M? I always get this, that it's more than an
institution of higher learning. Do you have that
feeling, and if you do, could you describe it?
Certainly, I think it is more than an institution
of higher learning.
I don't think it is quite as much now with more than
30,000 students as it was when
I came here. It was one big fraternity. The
students considered it that and resisted any
offshoots of fraternities at all. there was a
strong military tradition. I
think it was a fraternity of brotherhood, that's
what it was, the whole outfit. And if you, followed
along, accepted the traditions, accepted the
hazing, the relationships of freshman and
upperclassmen, and all of that. You earned a
position. You earned a place in the fraternity.
Even to get in a student club like the Silent
Sirloin Club, you had to make sacrifices. You
weren't even eligible until you got to be a junior
as a major. Then there was an initiation rite with
hazing involved in it. You had to make sacrifices
to belong, so you respected the membership a whole
lot more than getting it now, where all you gotta do
is pay three dollars or something. You had to be an
animal science major. It was something to lead to
something special. Well, Texas A&M is something
special.
It was just the experiences and the sacrifices
made just created a special bond among the
students. This camaraderie you were talking
about. That's right, and the faculty too.
Remember in those days, when I came here, there
were I don't know how many houses on campus. D.W.
Williams and A.K. Mackey lived in houses right on
the campus.
So the faculty people were associated with the
students to a much greater degree, not only in the
classroom but outside the classroom. You lived
together more. There just weren't all the
distractions, we might call them today. There
weren't the opportunities to leave the campus and
participate in things. You just weren't as
mobile. So all of those things, I think, created a
much stronger bond. among the students than at
other institutions those days and compared to
today. Those are things that you consider unique
then about A&M? Well certainly, of course, my
goodness. We marched to meals. We ate together all
at one time. So those things were very unique. in
bonding together, relationship among the
students. You were expected to know traditions,
to introduce yourself to everybody as a freshman.
I said there were no disadvantages being an ROTC,
and I'm sure that's one right there. Obviously,
when you walked into a group and there were 25 or 30
upperclassmen around, you had to introduce
yourself to every one of them. So I'm sure I
developed a terrible habit of not paying any
attention to what their names were. In the office,
you couldn't remember them all. And I think that's
a habit I developed that still persists. I have
trouble remembering names of people because of
that.
And the Farmer Students Association, they were
respected so
much.